WILLIAM BRANGHAM: And now to
a "NewsHour" Shares, something
that caught our eye here
that may be of interest to you.
When you think of the most
popular sports in the world,
even us Americans know that
soccer is number one worldwide.
But what about number two?
Believe it or not, it's cricket.
Now that English game
is starting to catch on
in the United States.
Tina Martin from PBS station
WGBH in Boston reports.
TINA MARTIN: Suiting up,
stretching out and getting in a
little batting practice before
a cricket match on a
remote field in Wrentham.
It's an unusual game that
most resembles baseball,
except you have a bowler
instead of pitcher,
and the ball has to
bounce before you hit it.
Games can last for hours,
even days, and scores
go into the hundreds.
NITIN MEWEDA, Player: I
am completely into it.
TINA MARTIN: Nitin
Meweda has played since
he was a boy in India.
He says American co-workers
were often confused
about his favorite sport.
NITIN MEWEDA: That's one thing
which used to happen with me
maybe five, six years ago.
And I would say -- they
would say, what did
you do this weekend?
I was like, oh,
I played cricket.
And they were like,
cricket, what is that?
TINA MARTIN: Cricket was played
in the United States back in
colonial times, but had pretty
much died out by the Civil War.
But it has thrived
in other parts of the
world, with international
matches that are among
the most watched
global sporting events.
At some games, there are
even royal photo-ops.
RAVI UPPALAPATI, Organizer:
Cricket in India is a religion.
It's more than three times
the population of the United
States, and there is one sport.
Can you imagine like, in States,
if you have one professional
sport all over the year,
how crazy it would be, right?
It is crazy.
TINA MARTIN: Most of the players
in Massachusetts are immigrants,
representing far corners of
the world.
RAVI UPPALAPATI: Most of us
are from India, but there are
a lot of people from Pakistan,
and other countries, Sri Lanka,
and Australia, and England.
TINA MARTIN: Ravi Uppalapati
is one of the organizers of
the Massachusetts State Cricket
League.
He says they now have
several thousand players.
RAVI UPPALAPATI: I think there
were 12 teams in Massachusetts
Cricket League in probably
'97.
There are more than 30-plus
teams now, so things
have picked up so much.
TINA MARTIN: The MSCL is trying
to create a new generation of
players, sponsoring clinics
and camps.
RAVI UPPALAPATI: You
see lacrosse these days.
Last two, three years,
nobody was playing lacrosse.
Kids are loving lacrosse.
So it's just a matter of
like how we introduce,
where we introduce.
TINA MARTIN: A bigger
challenge might be educating
the parents on what
they're actually watching
their kids play.
For the "PBS NewsHour,"
I'm Tina Martin in
Wrentham, Massachusetts.